Hey everyone, I'm Chris Crow, campus pastor for Crossway Christian Church's Millford campus here in Southern New Hampshire, where our mission is all about practicing the way of Jesus together as we pursue God, build community, and unleash compassion.
I pray that what you hear today will help you experience God more deeply and live more and more like Jesus.
Good morning.
Let's take our Bibles this morning and turn to Psalm 23 and we'll continue in our series.
Glad to see all of you.
We were at the Deerfield Fair yesterday.
I think all of New Hampshire was there at the same time.
There's a lot of people there.
And so I was thinking, we do what we desire.
And so there's a lot of people that desire to be at the Deerfield Fair and they'll wait in lines for overpriced food and different things like that.
And so it's so good to see you in the house of the Lord because you desire to be here.
And so if more and more Christians would desire the presence of the Lord manifest in the body of Christ or the local church, that would be even more phenomenal.
So thank you for being here to give Jesus the glory that he deserves.
He deserves to be exalted and lifted up.
Amen.
He does.
So we're going to continue Psalm 23.
We're titling this series, Experiencing Psalm 23.
We're going to look at verse 2.
If you take your eyes to verse 2 in Psalm 23, David said, He makes me lie down in green pastures and He leads me beside still waters or literally waters of rest.
To understand the Psalm, we've needed to get into the life of David.
Look at his backstory, what he went through.
What he was thinking, tried to get into his head.
David was a fugitive.
You remember the movie, The Fugitive with Harrison Ford?
Anybody?
You'll see an image on here.
You're like, I've never heard of it.
I've never heard of it.
Pull that up there.
It's great.
It's a great movie.
So Harrison Ford is on the run, but he's not on the run for any crime he committed.
People thought that he committed a crime, but he was innocent.
But he's on the run.
David is on the run.
Who's he on the run from?
Does anybody know?
Yeah, King Saul.
For how many years?
Do you remember?
I mentioned that.
20 years, 20 years, having somebody stalk you.
And so he was on a run.
He was a fugitive not for crime, but for jealousy and envy in the heart of King Saul toward David.
And so that must have been a tough road.
So when you get into the life of David trying to understand Psalm 23, it's important to look at where David was in his life.
What was going on?
What was he thinking?
What was he experiencing?
That is all very helpful to understand what we just read in Psalm 23.2.
I've titled the third message in this series, the skill of the shepherd.
The skill of the shepherd.
Now, we're all skilled in various ways, right?
And we value the skills of others.
It matters if your surgeon is skilled, correct?
Now, if your surgeon only had experience maybe playing the game of operation, remember that?
You'd be like, I think I want another surgeon to operate on my brain or my heart or my whatever.
So it's important to have skills.
The pilot flying your plane, skilled or unskilled.
Very skilled, hopefully.
How about the chef preparing your meal or the politician that is leading us or the police force need to be skilled, the military that we have need to be skilled, pastors need to be skilled at what they do as they shepherd the flock.
Parents, you need to be skilled at parenting, your sons and daughters.
We are valuing
the skills of the shepherd today.
How skillful is God in shepherding our souls?
This is important.
You're going to see it in the text as we expound it a little bit.
I'm going to bring two principles, two truths, and then we'll look at two application truths at the very end of this message.
Are you ready?
The Apostle Paul referred to himself as a skilled master builder.
a skilled master builder.
Psalm 78 verse 72, you'll see this up on the screen.
It says this about David.
With upright heart, he shepherded them and guided them with his what?
Skillful hand.
His skillful hand.
So let's look at these principles.
Here's number one.
If you want to write it down, we're going to make available too because we know that there's notetakers.
Is there any notetakers here?
You got to write everything down?
Wow.
Okay.
Over here.
They all kind of gather together.
Is that what you do?
Get community over there.
You're going to find these as you walk in, hopefully in their future.
Back at York Bible Church where I was, people would ask, can you give an outline with blanks and people like to note take?
So you'll see those as you come in, probably beginning next Lord's day.
So for those who are note takers, we'll do that.
So I'm going to give you point number one.
You might want to try to write this down.
God provides for us just enough faith to move forward.
I'm going to repeat that.
That's important.
And this is in verse two, he makes me lie down in green pastor.
So I'm going to show you what I'm talking about there.
Number one, God provides for us just enough faith to move forward.
You're going to need to know that where you're at in your journey.
Now remember, we're understanding David.
David's on the run.
He's going in the caves of a dulum over and over again.
He's a fugitive.
And so he's going into a cave for refuge and protection.
Saul's after him.
He gets word, Saul's getting close.
He leaves the cave of comfort.
And God's going to call you to leave a cave of comfort once in a while.
And to be able to do that, you're going to have to know that God is skilled at shepherding your life.
And when he shows or reveals his skillfulness in your life, then you're going to gain more faith.
You're going to grow not so much from glory to glory, although that's part of the journey.
But you're going to go from faith to faith.
Your faith now, you think, is, well, it's not super strong.
Well, when you see the skillful shepherd's hand, when you need to leave that cave of comfort, and you're going to have to leave it.
This is what David had to do.
He would be king 20 years later.
But he has the anointing, by the way.
He doesn't have the position.
Who has the position?
Saul had the position.
Did he have the anointing?
Yes or no?
No.
And so what you want is you want the anointing more than a position.
Don't be position hungry.
Don't try to jockey for position.
Humble yourselves before the Lord.
And then ask for the anointing on your life.
That's more important.
And so David is understanding the skills of his shepherd.
Now this phrase, he makes me lie down in green pastures.
I look at it and I'm going, interesting.
He makes me lie down in green.
Ask questions with every word of the Bible.
And so when I looked at the text, I'm thinking, okay, why green, Lord?
Is that important?
Does that mean anything?
So you ask yourself questions when you're trying to interpret scripture by the power of the Holy Spirit.
David is being stalked by King Saul.
We know that.
He needs to keep moving.
We see that in his life.
I want to come back to the fact that he has to keep moving.
So hold on to that thought.
But it's important to see that David is saying something here about being calm and content.
Now, when I've looked at this verse through the years, I have an image I want to bring up on the screen if you could bring that.
This is what I would think of.
in terms of this verse.
And I'd be like, oh God, I'm under some serious stress.
Life is hard.
You know, things are going really bad.
You make me lie down in green pastures.
And I would get this vision in my mind of a pastor or a prairie or something beautiful like we're seeing here.
And there is a place for that.
But I don't know if that's the most accurate interpretation of what David is trying to say in Psalm 23.2.
Nothing wrong with it.
Nothing wrong with believing that God's going to lead you to a place like that so that you'll lay down and you'll find calm and you'll find comfort and all those things.
Those are very important things.
Let me give you another image.
I'm going to do a little test with you, a little interactive here.
I want you to bring that up here.
Where would you rather be on the left in that image or would you rather be on the right?
How many people are, yes, I want left.
I want traffic jam, road rage.
I just thrive on that.
No way.
Most of us who want solitude, they want to be calm.
They want to be comforted.
They need primarily the one on the right.
The one on the left is very strenuous and stressful.
And so what we want to try to do is understand that it's right and good to want to be in a prairie or meadow.
You want to be in that place where God brings calm and comfort and contentment that is part of the interpretation.
But that is not the totality of what David is trying to say.
And the reason why I say that is because, again, we have to understand that David is in deserts.
He's in the wilderness.
He's in crags and crevices.
He's hiding in caves.
He's stressed.
He's upset.
He's thinking his life is going to come to an end.
He's thinking about his family.
I mean, he's a man, and he's battling with real, real hard things.
So in that context, I want to give you another angle to look at this.
So hang with me.
You'll notice that these are sheep trails.
That's what they are.
They're sheep trails.
And what a shepherd would do is they'd lead their sheep to these green pastures.
And technically, there wasn't a whole lot of grass in a lot of these places.
But there was enough grass that the shepherd would bring that sheep to, that that sheep would then eat and feel the full of that experience.
And then they would feel that comfort.
But what are they learning?
They're learning the skill of their shepherd.
because what the shepherd will do from there is take that sheep and keep moving them forward.
Some of you don't want to move forward.
Some of you want to stay where you are.
And God's going to say, no, no, I'm calling you out of that cave of comfort.
He's going to lead you to green pastures, but the pastures aren't necessarily what I showed you earlier.
They might look more like this.
And he's going to give you just enough faith for you to move to the next pasture.
Does it make any sense?
And that's how you grow.
That's how you get stronger.
Some of you are not going to grow at all in the coming year.
Why?
Just like a sheep.
Do you know that sheep are mentioned more?
Any animal in all of the Bible, sheep are mentioned the most.
We're prone to wander.
Sheeps are prone to wander.
Anybody prone to wander?
How many people have ever wandered from the Lord?
Raise your hand.
Don't leave me alone.
Because you would be lying.
Everybody has prone to wander.
We're known as sheep in Scripture.
Jesus is our shepherd.
I'm telling you, Jesus is skilled at shepherding our lives.
He is skilled at shepherding your life.
You're going to need to know that.
You're going to need to grow in that.
And that's where David is at in his life and as he's writing these verses.
Let me show you a wonderful picture.
It's a picture of a parent.
A very skilled provider is this young mom with this beautiful little baby.
Now, what can we learn from that in regards to what I'm trying to say here in this first point?
You'll notice that the baby is holding onto a spoon.
Did you pick up on that?
Now, if that baby is skilled or unskilled in feeding itself, unskilled, we'll rely on the parent who is skilled to take care of.
them.
I'm sure if that baby tried to feed themselves, it would be like in the forehead.
Or be in the ear, you know, that kind of thing.
So the baby has to rely on the skill of the parent to feed them.
What's going to happen in the baby's mind?
Can't really talk, I would imagine, at that age, Google and Gaga.
But what's happening inside of their soul?
But they're realizing more that mom is a skilled feeder
of my life, a protector of my life, a provider of my life.
That's the same thing David's talking about.
He leads me.
He makes me lie down in green pastures.
He's going to give me enough faith to go from here to there.
And then when I get there, he's going to give me enough faith to go from there to over there.
And then I'm going to be growing in grace and the knowledge of Jesus Christ.
Not just the knowledge of who He is, doctrinally, but who He is experientially.
that he is a skilled shepherd.
And I'm going to say to you, Jesus, this is what you'll be saying.
You probably already do.
Jesus, you are so skilled.
You know how to lead my life.
You know exactly what you're doing.
I don't have to doubt you.
But you know what?
I've doubted the Lord's skill before.
I have.
I've panicked.
I've gotten nervous.
Anybody else, right?
But then what happens?
He then leads me.
He feeds me.
He brings me to a pastor that I can just take and enjoy.
And I'm like, oh God, you are good.
You know what to give me exactly when I need it.
And then I get stronger in my faith.
And then I leave my cave of comfort.
And I move on.
And then I move on again.
And as I keep moving with the Lord, I keep getting stronger in faith.
This is how he does it.
It's wonderful.
The skill of the shepherd, it's critical to survival.
It's critical to that baby's life.
that they trust their mom and their dads skills in providing for them and feeding them.
God is a provider.
Does anybody know the word for provider?
He is Jehovah Jaira, our provider.
This is the way that God is with us.
He's wonderful.
Now he makes us, you'll notice the text, take your eyes there.
He makes me, boy, that sounds harsh.
I'm telling you it's okay if God makes me do it.
It really is.
Now, if you chafe against that, then you might want to look at your own heart and go, what is it?
Maybe I have a stubborn spirit.
Some people have stubborn spirit, overwhelms them a strong old.
Nobody's going to tell me what to do, even God.
And if God said, I'm going to make you do something, how many people would be like bringing on?
I'm OK with that.
We have to be.
But that's not really what it's talking about there.
It's a wonderful wonder.
He's not forcing us.
This is not who God is.
God lovingly leads us and provides what we need each and every single day.
I don't want you to feel anxious.
I hate anxiety.
Don't you hate anxiety?
Do you need a word from the Lord today?
Three of you need a word from the Lord.
Okay.
I'll talk to just three people in the house.
Do you need a word from the Lord today?
That is good.
That is great.
We're turning a little Pentecostal.
I love it.
Love it.
Little Hooten and Holler and it's not bad.
Let's do it.
Here's what he's talking about here, a green pastor.
This is a place of provision, but watch, watch this.
It's beautiful.
He's talking about the gospel.
This is what he's talking about.
He's going to make you lay down in the gospel.
That's where you're going to find your feeding.
So you weren't just saved by the gospel.
You're sanctified by the gospel.
In other words, you were saved from your sins, from sin, death, hell, and Satan.
That salvation, you were justified by faith alone and Christ alone.
So was I in the gospel.
And that same gospel isn't just to save us, it's to preserve us.
In other words, you feed on the gospel.
This is the beauty of the gospel.
That's why it needs to be preached.
Some of you need to hear the gospel today.
I'm gonna leave you to a green pasture.
You're gonna be able to lay down in the gospel, feed on the gospel,
And you're going to get your faith strengthened as a result of that.
This makes sense?
This is important for us to understand.
I want you to lay down in the gospel.
Now listen, some of you, some of you in the house or maybe watching, don't know Jesus Christ as your shepherd.
It's the gospel that I preach to you that you would repent of your sins.
and put your faith in Him alone because He loves you.
He loves you.
He died on that cross because He loves you.
He's a substitute for you.
You can't get to heaven on your own.
I'm telling you, you're going to fail miserably.
You need Jesus today.
I needed Him at 19 years old.
I need Him every single day since then.
He makes me.
I don't want you to be anxious.
The Bible says be anxious for nothing but in everything by what?
Prayer and supplication.
Here's point number two.
Now this isn't the second phrase that David uses here.
He leads me besides still waters.
Number two, God protects our faith so it won't ultimately fail.
That's number two.
This is gonna bring you some calm and assurance as well, I hope and pray.
What's the key operative word in that phrase?
He leads me besides still waters.
What word stands out to you?
I'm sorry.
Leads.
Good.
That's good.
Yeah.
Any other words?
Still.
Let me just camp on still for a minute.
He leads me beside still waters, opposite of turbulent, right?
Opposite of rushing waters.
You'll see an image on the screen of a river.
This river would a skilled shepherd lead a sheep to this river.
Yes or no?
Absolutely not.
Why wouldn't they?
Those little legs can't handle that.
they would be swept down river.
There would be fear and terror inside of the sheep's heart and their mind.
David is saying he leads besides still waters.
What is that saying to us?
It's saying that God understands.
God will bring you to places of still waters because in that he's protecting your faith.
He knows how to protect us.
This is key.
Not just provide for us.
but protect us.
Now you might feel like your faith has failed.
Talk to some people as I've gotten to know many of you and some of you say things about yourself that you failed a lot.
And I'm going to tell you that happens to everybody.
So don't be so hard on yourself.
I know because I'm hard on myself.
I get it.
God has had to deal with that in my life.
But I'm going to tell you God always leads us to triumph.
This is who he is.
He is a skilled shepherd.
Amen?
He is skilled.
He knows what he's doing with our life.
Let me give you another image just to try to illustrate what I'm trying to say here.
You'll see an image of a dad with a couple of his boys and a kiddie pool.
Then you'll see an image on the right there.
That's the broads at Lake Winipasaki.
Now skilled dad, this is what he's doing as he's sitting there.
He's playing with his kids.
He provides for them, yes, but he also protects them.
So he's not going to allow them to have
They're little playtime in the middle of the broads in Lake Winnipasaki, right?
He's going to provide and protect them by putting them in a kitty pool.
Now, the little boys there, if they were, they're having a good time, aren't they?
They're having a really good time.
Are they trusting their dad?
For sure.
What would happen if he just said, hey, hey, sons, over the edge, you're going into the broads.
Hope you make it.
What would happen?
What would be in their mind as children?
When they looked at their dad, skilled or unskilled, what would happen inside their heart would be fear and terror.
The skilled shepherd does not do that to us.
He leads us besides still waters.
It's very important.
Very restful waters.
I mentioned that.
That's the literal interpretation of what that's talking about there.
Think of places that there are still waters that you've been around the beauty of it.
I do have a picture of that, right?
Bring this up.
This is a beautiful shot here.
I don't know if it's AI or what.
It looks kind of fake, doesn't it?
But you can use your imagination, right?
And it's like, wow, still waters.
Raging waters.
No, God's not going to bring us there.
He's going to bring us to still waters.
All of that is to protect our faith so that our faith doesn't ultimately fail.
Listen, you are always going to fail forward.
You are.
Now, I've failed and I've tripped and fallen, but I'm not ultimately going to fail in the area of totality.
This doesn't happen.
We just think about that, about our salvation being secure, sure.
We talked about assurance before, but you are going to fail.
And when you fail, you fail, not backwards, forward.
Keep going forward.
This is what we do.
So he makes me, it says, that's the first thought.
And that's not force.
This is more relevatory.
Think about it like this.
God's not forcing me.
He's revealing something to me.
He's revealing next steps to being satisfied in himself.
He's leading me to green pastors, or making me to lie down in green pastors, pardon me, of the gospel.
The second is restorative, so it's relevatory in that first statement.
He makes me, it's restorative in the second one in that he brings me to places of peace.
So think of it like this, grace first, guidance.
It's all about grace in the gospel and then he guides us out of the gospel and through with the gospel for the rest of our lives so that we are able to press on.
God provides, God protects.
And David sees the skill of his shepherd with each crack and crevice that he has to hide in.
And when he gets word that solves close by and he has to leave and keep going, he doesn't know if it's going to be another year, another five years, another 10 years, but he keeps learning the skill of his shepherd because one day he's going to be king.
You see, one day,
You're not going to be king, but you're going to have an influence that's going to be even greater than you have now.
And you're going to have to learn to live in caves.
You're going to have to learn these principles now.
He's preparing you.
He's getting you ready.
This is how he works.
So let me give you those two application principles as way of conclusion.
Letter A would be relinquish any control.
Any control freaks in the house?
Oh, yeah.
A lot of control freaks.
They're mostly over here.
No takers, control freaks.
I'll think of something for you later.
Relinquish any control.
David was in training for a greater calling and destiny.
He would be king.
He has the anointing, doesn't have the position.
He needed some more training and some things before he would fulfill that position many, many years later.
Proverbs 3, 5, and 6 was written by who?
Do you remember?
Let's bring that up.
Thank you.
Yeah, this is David's son.
Now, think about this.
David's watching his dad, you know, experiencing those things that he and his dad would experience.
And he says this, this is very popular versus scripture.
Trust in the Lord with all of your heart.
Do not lean on your own understanding.
In all of your ways, acknowledge him and he will make straight your paths.
Where does he get that?
Now, skill of the shepherd.
He saw his dad.
He understood.
His dad was learning and growing.
Solomon saw all of these things being worked out in his father's life.
The great temptation is to separate ourselves from God's rule over our lives, to take matters into our own hands and try to control them.
I remember this.
We tried adopting three girls many years ago.
I'll tell you the story some other time.
It's so long.
It's such a God story, but it's a hard story.
I can remember trying to adopt them, and it just was not working out, and I really felt like I needed to try to control some things.
See, when you're in a panic or you're feeling like the pressure's on or life is hard or you feel like it's, you're overwhelmed by all the things that's going on in your world.
And I know some of you are overwhelmed with what's going on in your world.
I don't know all the details, but God knows all of that.
If you want to talk about it, I'll be glad to listen and pray with you all of that.
But in the middle of all this hard stuff that we were going through, I'm trying to control everything.
I'm trying to be sovereign, you know, I'm trying to be God.
I think I can do it.
I think that I'm more skilled than God.
This is how we act.
You think that you could skillfully lead your own life?
When we get to the place where we go, God, I am not skilled in this, but you're skilled in shepherding my life.
I trust you with that.
Those verses, we just rent them.
I don't understand what's going on, but I trust you.
When you start to get to that place, you're understanding the skill of the shepherd where David had gotten.
Anyway,
I felt like I was trying to control everything and the Lord gave me a word one day.
And it was a word about Azah.
Now, Azah was a man.
Remember the ark of the covenant was being transported and you had to transport it a certain way.
You couldn't touch it with your hand.
You had to put it on poles, right?
And so they would transport the ark of the covenant on poles.
Can't be touched by people.
So what happened one day?
They were transporting the ark.
It hit a pothole or something in the road there.
It starts to move and this guy, Uzzah goes like this and he tries to steady it with his hand.
What happens to Uzzah?
Yeah, it's a tough story, huh?
Think about that.
It's like, God, why?
Whoa.
This is what God said to me when I was trying to control.
He goes, don't be like Uzzah.
Don't try to touch what I'm doing.
This is what he said to me almost audibly.
Don't touch what I'm doing.
I'm doing something that only I can do.
And you're trying to control it, just like us.
I said, whoa, I pulled back off of that.
And there was this holy reverence in my heart.
And I humbled myself.
And I said, God, I'm sorry.
I'm trying to control everything.
I need to relinquish it.
Relinquish your control.
Open up your hand.
Open it up to God.
I say, God, I'm not going to have a grip on my own life anymore.
I'm going to let go of my grip and relinquish control.
This is how you apply what we're looking at today.
Would you try to do that?
I know it's going to be hard.
It's going to be impossible, in fact.
But the gospel, go back to the gospel, feed on the gospel.
Go there.
And you'll see the power to do it.
Number two, rest in his care, or letter B.
Rest in his care.
Psalm 8, 4, 91, 4, 95, 7, if you want to write these.
And 144, 3, talk about it.
the wonderful, wonderful care of God.
David knew intimately the care of God.
Oh, I don't believe it was an easy journey for David to get to this place.
It took time.
It takes time for you and I.
Don't be too hard on yourself.
It's happening.
God is doing the work.
We're typically not good at resting, right?
Anybody else here like that?
You're not good at resting.
Our culture was, do you know the slogan?
Can you bring up Duncan's watch this?
This is unbelievable.
What's the slogan?
I think it's on the cup there.
I can't quite read it, but America runs on Duncan's.
Yeah.
I know that there's probably 99% of you that are coffee drinkers, right?
Or maybe Red Bull or Monster Drinks, right?
What's the purpose of all of these things that they're making millions and millions and millions of dollars?
That's because you're not getting the rest that you should be getting naturally.
And so what we do is we have to try to stimulate ourselves.
And we need stimulants to be able to have the energy to make it throughout the day.
I'm not against coffee.
I don't personally drink it.
I'm not under crusade.
So don't send me an email with that.
If you want to drink coffee, that's fine.
If you want to have a red bull, that's fine.
I'm just going to make you think a little bit here about rest.
I don't rest well.
I'm not good at, never have been good at it.
It's something the Lord has convicted me on.
Truly.
We all need to rest.
Our rest is not very good.
In fact, I'm going to give you a couple of phrases here.
Monophastic, monophastic sleep is common today.
That's like seven to nine hours.
That's called monophastic, bifastic sleep, is when you might take a nap once in a while.
Then there's polyphastic sleep.
That's many periods in a 24-hour period of time.
Culture in general, there are other countries that do this.
They're polyfastic in the sense of they take multiple naps.
They're resting throughout the day, 24 hours.
We would think that they're what?
Lazy.
I'm thinking now, they're just wise.
I used to think lazy, seriously.
Something's wrong with me.
See, a lot of these cultures, ancient cultures, would rest throughout the day.
They understood rhythms, you know, and things like that.
In fact, the Industrial Revolution is what changed everything, I think, for our culture.
So when you went from rural to urban, and when you went from an agrarian society where you worked with your hands to machinery, then you have everything starting to shift and change.
You had families that changed.
Kids went to work at young age of SNIA families.
The dynamic of the family is changing throughout that period of time.
Beautiful, beautiful technology, beautiful inventions during the Industrial Revolution.
A lot of negative things too came out of that.
Could we say that about modern, even more modern, like the internet?
Some really cool things can happen, but also really negative things can happen with that.
Same with the industrial revolution.
As a result of all of that, we're not getting the rest that we need.
So now we have to jack up our energy levels with stimulants.
I'm going to encourage us and myself, primarily first and foremost, that I would learn the rhythms of rest better.
So that's a public confession.
I want you to keep me accountable to that and say, Chris, are you getting the rest that you need?
Are you sleeping well?
Are you taking those breaks that you need?
Would you do that?
I'm serious.
Would you?
Are you going to pay for it?
Woo!
Yeah.
I saw the care of God for me many years ago, four years ago, actually.
I was in ICU for a week.
I had never been to the hospital for anything other than to visit people in my churches.
I mean, I saw my tonsils.
So I'm in ICU now, for a week.
What did I learn there?
Skill of the shepherd, for sure.
But I had to rely on the rest and the care of those wonderful doctors and nurses.
So there were lots of them.
There were dozens.
I mean, that was in rough shape.
And so I got all kinds of tubes sticking out of my neck and stuff like that.
And I'm laying there, couldn't do anything for myself.
But God was teaching me some great things.
Just trust them to care for me.
Trust God, trust them.
That's what I had to do.
Can I encourage you, rest in the care of God?
He cares for you.
He really does.
So here's the end of it.
Number one, God provided for us, provides for us just enough faith to move forward.
Number two, God protects our faith so it won't ultimately fail.
Application is relinquish any control.
Rest in his care.
Amen?
Let's read Psalm 23 out loud.
If we can, again, out loud.
The Lord is my shepherd.
I shall not want.
He makes me lie down in green pastures.
He leads me beside still waters.
He restores my soul.
He leads me in paths of righteousness for his namesake.
Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil.
For you are with me.
Your rod and your staff, they comfort me.
You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies.
You anoint my head with oil, my cup overflows.
And surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life.
And I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever.
Glory to you, Lord, the skilled master shepherd.
There is nothing too difficult for you, O Lord.
And so we rest in that.
We relinquish control.
We admit to you that we've had a grip on our own lives or circumstances.
We're trying to be God, we're trying to be sovereign, trying to be in control.
Oh God, may we release our grispen, relinquish our control, and may we rest in your care for us.
You know exactly what you're doing.
You know exactly how to shepherd our lives.
You make us lie down in green pastures.
You give us just what we need, enough faith, then to move out of our comfort, out of the cave of comfort, on to the rest of the journey.
It's hard, scary,
At times, Lord, we think that we're going to be just overcome by everything, but then you show up and you show that you are so skilled.
You know exactly what you're doing.
You protect our faith so it won't ultimately fail.
When we do trip and fall, which is many times in our lifetime, we will fail forward.
Please give encouragement to those in this room or watching online that they would hear your voice on this, that they would know that you certainly know what you're doing with their lives.
In Jesus' mighty name, amen?
You are left.
Thanks for listening to the Crossway Christian Church's Middleford campus sermon podcast.
If you like to plug into the life of our community or have any questions that we might be able to answer, visit our website at crosswaycc.org to connect with us.
Until next time, we can be with you.
May the Lord bless you and keep you.